Let's go through these exercises.
And we'll talk about free monads, lenses
and getting to app building with whatever
time we have left for
a couple of apps we can build.
So I'm just gonna go through this a little
quickly but definitely stop me and
I'll answer any questions as we go.
So we use function either ask.
Since we're in the function type,
we have a ask method we saw earlier
to get at this configuration.
And then return the port, okay?
So I'll say function either.ask, and
that is an actual function type.
So now I can map over that and
get to the config, get to config.port.
And it works, cool.
Not too hard, but
I just pull the config out of thin air.
It's pretty sweet.
Let's take it a little further.
Now it says, use example one to get
the port and connect to the db.
And then we're gonna find
whatever this idea is.
So, just use example one here,
call that, it'll give me
the port to get the- so this,
of course is not the port number.
I shouldn't say of course, but this is
still inside a function either, right?
We just mapped it and
changed the value inside to hold the port.
So we have a function
either holding a port.
So we call that to map
over that to get the port.
Neat, and then from there,
what do we have to do?
We want to connect to the db, so
we have connect to db, that takes a port.
And then that returns me in either.
Of the fakeDb or
left to failed to connect.
I have a function either, and I'm trying
to map over that and return an either.
So then I'll have
a function either either.
So we don't wanna do that,
we wanna chain and then we wanna lift,
This either into the function either,
see if that's going all right?
And the last thing is find the id.
We have the id, we have a fakeDb.
Now that we have that,
we should have a db.
And then, we wanna find db.find(id).
Crap, it's got another either.
[LAUGH] Part of the chain.
And we'll have to lift.
Let's see if that did it.
Hey, that passed.
Are people seeing why I don't
like monad transformers?
[LAUGH] But they're everywhere and
they're- perhaps they make more sense.
I might be making an unfair judgement
based on this stuff is fine.
Unfair judgement based
on factor in Javascript.
And we don't have a lot of type help and
stuff like that,
but they're pretty
painful in any language.
Exercise two.
Let's go into ReaderTask, fun.
We have a function, holding a task.
I just called it reader here because
that's usually what you call function.
And we're gonna ask again to
get the server for the postUrl.
And get the server
variable from ReaderTask.
Boy, what's even happening here?
[LAUGH] Really sets us up for
success y'all.
So it looks like server is not defined.
We need to get the server.
So I call ReaderTask.ask, and
we'll chain over that to get the server.
And I could have mapped.
But I know right off the bat
that this thing inside,
it's doing a fetch, it's gonna be a task.
So I'll probably have to just loop
through ReaderTask that lift this thing.
Does that work?
There it is, cool, so,
that is a little bit of a- we're talking
about getting stuff out
of the reader monad,
we're trying to put stuff in and
we're staying shallow.
So it's not as bad here
as what we saw over here.
But I just wanna get a little bit
of a feel to use these things.
And so we can use this as a tool to
build apps when we have very rigid-
there's another one, look at that [LAUGH].
Looks like it's already passing.
In the interest of time, I don't wanna
do this, I just skipped this one.
I could post the answer later.
But what this is trying to
explain is what we did together.
It's got these either posts,
then we're folding.
And what we'd rather do is use Api2,
which returns us a TaskEither and
it would just clean this whole thing up.
So it shows where they actually shine.
Let's do it, why not?
[LAUGH] You pulled my leg.
So here we just get the post.
Wait, does that dot sting make
sense [LAUGH] in this context?
[LAUGH] Made me pull my arm.
And we have Api2 get post.
And then we get a post out.
Instead of all this, we could just get
the post title and be done with it.
Does that work?
It works, cool.
So you can see Api2 is much nicer because
as I map and chain, I get at the post or
whatever it's holding,
not the intermediate types in between.
And if you do have a type,
like a database thing and
you make a TaskEither, they do have
a place where they're not so bad.
It's really when you start to have four or
five types, you're returning different
types and you have to put them
in the right slots and so on.